.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH GYDRA SECTION "April 24, 2014"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
gydra \- small utility to play audio from special net audio server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gydra
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B gydra
commands.
.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics,
.\" respectively.
\fBgydra\fP is a program that play UDP audio stream from special hardware audio
net server designed for special arms. Audio stream can be played via soundcard or can
be captured to raw audio file. Format options: 30050 Hz sample rate, mono channel,
24 bit per sample little-endian.
.SH OPTIONS
These programs follow the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (`-').
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Show version of program.
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-list-devices
List of compatible audio devices.
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-ip
IPv4 address of net audio server (default 192.168.4.3). Only dot-decimal form
of address is allowed.
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-port
Port of net audio server (default 257). Due to default port is under 1024 the 
program must be run under root privilegies.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-device
Audio device id for ouput audio stream. If this option is not specified
output the system default audio output will be used. To list all compatible
audio devices that can play audio stream of audio net server audio format please
run program with \fB--list-devices\fP option.
.TP
.B \-t, \--time
Time in seconds for audio output before program exit. After this time elapsed
the program will be closed automatically.
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-num-packets
Number of packets to be received from net and output to sound card before program exit.
When specified number of net packets will be received the program will be closed
automatically.
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-mode
\fI"test"\fP or \fI"real"\fP - operation mode, real mode is default. In test mode net audio server
generate 1kHz sine wave by itself.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-stop 
Send "stop" signal to the audio net server. It may be useful in some cases when
net audio server continue to send packets after program crash.
.TP
.B \-\-out-file
Turn on writing received audio data to the file. This option can by used only
in conduction with \fB--num--packets\fP or \fB--time\fP options to prevent writing very
large files. If no filename specified then default \fI"gydra.raw"\fP will be used.

.br
.SH AUTHOR
gydra was written by Vityusha V. Vinokurov.
.PP
This manual page was written by Vityusha V. Vinokurov <vit@trs.sut.ru>,
for the Debian project (and may be used by others).
